Add a doc walkthrough to setup oauth2 proxy and secure ingress (#1484)
tektoncd/dashboard: docs/walkthrough/walkthrough-oauth2-proxy.md

# Tekton Dashboard walkthrough - OAuth2 Proxy

This guide walks you through installing a working Tekton Dashboard locally from scratch and securing it behind an oauth2 proxy. It covers the following topics:

* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin)
* [Overview](#overview)
* [Installing a working Tekton Dashboard locally from scratch](#installing-a-working-tekton-dashboard-locally-from-scratch)

> * [Creating a Github OAuth App](#creating-a-github-oauth-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Creating a GitHub OAuth App](#creating-a-github-oauth-app)
```

* [Installing and configuring oauth2-proxy](#installing-and-configuring-oauth2-proxy)
* [Setting up Dashboard Ingress rule for authentication](#setting-up-dashboard-ingress-rule-for-authentication)
* [Cleaning up](#cleaning-up)

## Before you begin

Before you begin, make sure the following tools are installed:

1. [`kind`](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/): For creating a local cluster running on top of docker.
1. [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/): For interacting with your kubernetes cluster.
1. [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): For installing helm charts in your kubernetes cluster.

> You will also need a [Github](https://github.com/) account to complete this walkthrough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also need a [GitHub](https://github.com/) account to complete this walkthrough.
```

## Overview

> In this walkthrough you will deploy a centralized `oauth2-proxy` service to authenticate from a Github OAuth application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this walkthrough you will deploy a centralized `oauth2-proxy` service to authenticate from a GitHub OAuth application.
```

You will then use this authentication service to secure the Tekton Dashboard ingress by letting `NGINX ingress controller` know that the ingress requires authentication and how to authenticate against the `oauth2-proxy` service.

Please note that the `oauth2-proxy` service could be used with any ingress in your cluster, it is not limited to the Tekton Dashboard, that's why it's called centralized.

The picture below illustrates the deployed components and interactions between them:

![Overview](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-overview.png)

## Installing a working Tekton Dashboard locally from scratch

If you didn't follow the [Tekton Dashboard walkthrough with Kind](./walkthrough-kind.md) yet, you should start there to get a local cluster with a working Tekton Dashboard installed.

The following steps will focus on getting `oauth2-proxy` installed in your cluster and securing the Tekton Dashboard `Ingress`.

> ## Creating a Github OAuth App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a GitHub OAuth App
```

> Before installing `oauth2-proxy`, you will need to create a OAuth App on your Github account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing `oauth2-proxy`, you will need to create a OAuth App on your GitHub account.
```

> This OAuth App will be used to authenticate users using Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This OAuth App will be used to authenticate users using GitHub.
```

> To create the OAuth App on Github, browse https://github.com/settings/developers and click the `New OAuth App` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the OAuth App on GitHub, browse https://github.com/settings/developers and click the `New OAuth App` button.
```

Fill in the form and click the `Register application` button:
- `Application name`: the name of the application
- `Homepage URL`: Set this to `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io` but this in not important

> - `Authorization callback URL`: Set this to `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2`, we will expose `oauth2-proxy` under this url in the next step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Authorization callback URL`: Set this to `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2`, we will expose `oauth2-proxy` under this URL in the next step
```

![Register OAuth application](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-register.png)

> Once the apllication is registered, you will obtain a `Client ID` and `Client Secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the application is registered, you will obtain a `Client ID` and `Client Secret`.
```

> This will be needed to configure `oauth2-proxy` in the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These will be needed to configure `oauth2-proxy` in the next step.
```

![Registered OAuth application](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-registered.png)

## Installing and configuring oauth2-proxy

> Now you have the OAuth application created on Github, you can deploy [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy) in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have the OAuth application created on GitHub, you can deploy [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy) in your cluster.
```

> You will install it using helm. The helm chart used in this guide is hosted on the [helm official reepository](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/oauth2-proxy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will install it using helm. The helm chart used in this guide is hosted on the [helm official repository](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/oauth2-proxy).
```

> To install the chart, simply set the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` you just obtained from Github and run the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the chart, set the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` you just obtained from GitHub and run the command below:
```

```bash
# CLIENT_ID and CLIENT_SECRET are the Client ID and Client Secret obtained

> # when creating the Github OAuth application in the previous step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# when creating the GitHub OAuth application in the previous step
```

CLIENT_ID=__THE_CLIENT_ID_OF_YOUR_GITHUB_OAUTH_APP__
CLIENT_SECRET=__THE_CLIENT_SECRET_OF_YOUR_GITHUB_OAUTH_APP__

cat <<EOF | helm upgrade --install --wait --create-namespace --namespace tools oauth2-proxy stable/oauth2-proxy --values -
config:
  clientID: $CLIENT_ID
  clientSecret: $CLIENT_SECRET

extraArgs:
  provider: github
  whitelist-domain: .127.0.0.1.nip.io
  cookie-domain: .127.0.0.1.nip.io
  redirect-url: http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2/callback
  cookie-secure: 'false'

ingress:
  enabled: true
  path: /
  hosts:
    - auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io
EOF
```

This will install `oauth2-proxy` in your cluster in the `tools` namespace.

> Some parameters in this configuration deserve a bit of explanations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explanation of the parameters:
```

> - `config.ClientID` and `config.clientSecret` are obtained when creating the Github OAuth application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `config.clientID` and `config.clientSecret` are obtained when creating the GitHub OAuth application
```

> - `extraArgs.provider` tells `oauth2-proxy` to use Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `extraArgs.provider` tells `oauth2-proxy` to use GitHub
```

- `extraArgs.redirect-url` is needed for HTTP callbacks, `oauth2-proxy` will default to HTTPS if not set
- `extraArgs.whitelist-domain` allows `oauth2-proxy` to authenticate request for all `.127.0.0.1.nip.io` subdomains
- `extraArgs.cookie-secure` disables CSRF as we are using HTTP (not HTTPS)

> - `extraArgs.cookie-domain` is used to set the cookie for all `.127.0.0.1.nip.io` subdomains. As `oauth2-proxy` is deployed centrally, it will be exposed at `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io` while the dashboard will be exposed at `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io`. The cookie needs to be available to both urls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `extraArgs.cookie-domain` is used to set the cookie for all `.127.0.0.1.nip.io` subdomains. As `oauth2-proxy` is deployed centrally, it will be exposed at `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io` while the dashboard will be exposed at `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io`. The cookie needs to be available to both URLs
```

> Although not used in this walkthrough, Github provider supports restricting logins to members of an organisation, members of a team, or collaborator of a repository for more security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although not used in this walkthrough, the GitHub provider supports restricting logins to members of an organisation, members of a team, or collaborators of a repository for more security.
```

> See supported [configuration parameters](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/configuration) for the full list of confiuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See supported [configuration parameters](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/configuration) for the full list of configuration options.
```

> `oauth2-proxy` also supports other providers, see the list of [supported providers](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/auth-configuration) to setup a different provider than Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`oauth2-proxy` also supports other providers, see the list of [supported providers](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/auth-configuration) to setup a different provider than GitHub.
```

## Setting up Dashboard Ingress rule for authentication

With `oauth2-proxy` deployed, you will now secure the Tekton Dashboard `Ingress`.

To do so, you need to add [annotations on the ingress](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations.md#external-authentication) to let `NGINX ingress controller` know that the ingress requires authentication and how to authenticate.

Two annotations are used here:

> - `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` indicates that the ingress uses an external service that provides authentication. This will point to `oauth2-proxy` service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` indicates that the ingress uses an external service that provides authentication. This will point to the `oauth2-proxy` service
```

> - `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-signin` indicates the url used to sign in when the user is not logged in. This will point to `oauth2-proxy` sign in endpoint, setting the desired redirect url in the query parameters so that users are redirected to the Tekton Dashboard after logging in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-signin` indicates the URL used to sign in when the user is not logged in. This will point to `oauth2-proxy` sign in endpoint, setting the desired redirect URL in the query parameters so that users are redirected to the Tekton Dashboard after logging in
```

To apply the ingress annotations run the command below:

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -n tekton-pipelines -f -
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: tekton-dashboard
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url: "http://oauth2-proxy.tools.svc.cluster.local/oauth2/auth"
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-signin: "http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2/sign_in?rd=http://\$host\$request_uri"
spec:
  rules:
  - host: tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: tekton-dashboard
          servicePort: 9097
EOF
```

> **NOTE:** The url set in the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` is the in-cluster dns name of the `oauth2-proxy` service. We can not use `auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io` here because it resolves to `127.0.0.1` and therefore the ingress controller would call itself instead of the `oauth2-proxy` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** The URL set in the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url` is the in-cluster DNS name of the `oauth2-proxy` service. We can't use `auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io` here because it resolves to `127.0.0.1` and therefore the ingress controller would call itself instead of the `oauth2-proxy` service.
```

> Visiting the Tekton Dashboard url `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io` for the first time should redirect you to the `oauth2-proxy` sign in page (`http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2/sign_in?rd=http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io/`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visiting the Tekton Dashboard URL `http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io` for the first time should redirect you to the `oauth2-proxy` sign in page (`http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2/sign_in?rd=http://tekton-dashboard.127.0.0.1.nip.io/`):
```

![oauth2-proxy sign in page](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-sign-in.png)

> Clicking on the `Sign in with GitHub` button should get you on the Github OAuth sign in page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the `Sign in with GitHub` button should send you to the GitHub OAuth sign in page:
```

> ![Github OAuth sign in page](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-github.png)

Reviewer: last one:

```suggestion
![GitHub OAuth sign in page](./walkthrough-oauth2-proxy-github.png)
```

Finally, authorizing the connection should bring you back to the Tekton Dashboard.

> **Tip:** if you need to sign out, visit `http://auth.127.0.0.1.nip.io/oauth2/sign_out`.

Reviewer: this should be hooked up to our LogoutButton in the Dashboard

Author: Yeah, if there was an easy way to it... will probably become easy once we get the installer in

## Cleaning up

> Delete the Github Oauth application you created for this walkthrough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the GitHub Oauth application you created for this walkthrough.
```

> To clean up the local kind cluster, follow the cleaning up instruction in the [Tekton Dashboard walkthrough with Kind](./walkthrough-kind.md#cleaning-up) walkthrough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clean up the local kind cluster, follow the [cleaning up instructions](./walkthrough-kind.md#cleaning-up) in Tekton Dashboard walkthrough with Kind.
```
